Amir H H Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani arrived yesterday in the capital of Buenos Aires on a state visit to the Republic of Argentina. H H the Amir was welcomed upon arrival at Ministro Pistarini (Ezeiza) International Airport by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Argentine Republic, Jorge Faure, Qatar's Ambassador to Argentina, Fahad bin Ibrahim Al Mana, and members of the Qatari Embassy.

Doha: Bilateral relations between Qatar and Argentina have witnessed a great boom during the last two years, especially after the first visit of Amir H H Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. The value of Qatari exports to Argentina reached last year to $450m.

The Ambassador of the Republic of Argentina to Qatar, Carlos Hernandez, pointed out that Qatar has moved from being a small supplier of liquefied natural gas to be the main source of Argentina at the present time, while Argentina exports to Doha reached $20m, more than half of which is related to the export of agricultural products such as cereals, barley, fruit, poultry and meat.

Qatari investments in Argentina are increasing, for example, Qatar Petroleum (QP) is exploring gas in cooperation with ExxonMobil, he said, expressing hope that the investment will increase in the next phase and will vary between the exploring of metals in his country such as gold, copper and others, especially that relations are developing significantly between the two sides.

The Ambassador said that Argentina's position towards the siege crisis is clear, stressing that it is necessary to solve such problems among brothers through diplomatic means and in accordance with international law and human rights principles to avoid the serious repercussions that affect the citizens. He noted that Argentina has good relations with all parties and hopes to solve this crisis as soon as possible and peacefully.

This crisis is not in the interest of anyone but it has benefited the State of Qatar, where it contributed to the strengthening of self-reliance, provide basic needs locally, expand the circle of dealing with foreign markets and develop the Qatari citizen to contribute to the comprehensive renaissance that emerged after this crisis, the Ambassador said.

The State of Qatar, he added demonstrated to be a very successful country developing itself in a very short span of time, and nowadays it offers important career opportunities and attracts foreign professionals and investors.

Externally, Qatar proved to be a great country establishing good relations bilaterally, regionally and internationally, dealing with crisis and difficult situations with maturity and acting in a responsible and professional way in respect of the International Law, he said.

The Ambassador said that it is a short time since the opening of the Argentine Embassy in Doha in 2013, but bilateral relations are growing steadily and intra-regional trade is growing very rapidly, expressing hope to further strengthen relations and launch direct flights between Doha and Buenos Aires, as these flights have a significant impact on increasing investments and cooperation between the two countries in all fields.

In May last year, as well as May of this year, two rounds of political consultations were held between the two Ministers of foreign affairs in Qatar and the Argentine Republic. They took place in Doha and Buenos Aires, respectively. The consultations focused on bilateral relations between the two friendly countries in various fields, as well as discussing a number of issues and topics of joint interest.

In the framework of mutual visits between the two countries, Amir H H Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani visited the Argentine Republic in July 2016. The visit contributed to radical changes that strengthened political relations between the two countries. The Vice-President of Argentina, Gabriela Michetti, visited Doha in November 2016. Former Argentine President Cristina Fernandez also visited Doha in January 2011, followed by other official visits to Doha by senior officials of the Argentine government.

The two countries have a number of agreements and memorandums of understanding, such as agreements for the development and implementation of energy, cultural and scientific cooperation projects, the economic, commercial and technical cooperation agreement, the air transport agreement, the cooperation agreement in the field of sports.

Qatar Petroleum (QP) signed in June a deal with ExxonMobil to acquire a 30 percent stake in two of Exxon's affiliates in Argentina.

These two affiliates hold different interests in hydrocarbon licenses for seven blocks in the Vaca Muerta play in the onshore Neuquen basin in Argentina.

H H the Amir's current and previous tours of the South American continent underscores the importance of the continent and its countries. It provides great economic and commercial opportunities for the State of Qatar to expand its foreign investments and diversify its food and industrial resources.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/321/1059/43/153870511425.jpg

Qatar-Argentina relations witness great boom